# Data-structures-and-Algorithm
implementation od data structures and algorithm in java

## 2d array
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/TwoDimensionalArrayMain.java

## single linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/SingleLinkedListMain.java

## single circular linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/circularll.java

## double linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/doublelinkedlistt.java

## circular double linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/circulardoublelinkedlist.java

## implementing stack using array
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/stackarray.java

## implementing stack using linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/stacklinkedlist.java

## implementing linear queue using array
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/linearqueuearray.java

## implementing circular queue using array
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/circularqueuearray.java

## queue using linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/queueusinglinkedlist.java

## binary tree using linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/binarytreelinkedlist.java

## binary tree using array
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/binarytreearray.java

## binary search tree using linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/binarysearchtree.java

## avl tree using linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/avltreelinkedlist.java

## get height of a binary tree
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/binarytreegetheight.java

## heap using array
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/heapusingarray.java

## trie data structure
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/trieds.java

## hashing technique - direct chaining resolution technique
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/directchainingtech.java

## hashing technique - linear probing resolution technique
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/linearprobingtech.java

## hashing technique - quadratic probing resolution technique
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/quadraticprobingtech.java

## hashing technique - double hashing technique
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/doublehashingtech.java

## sorting technique - bubble sort
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/BubbleSortMain.java

## sorting technique - selection sort
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/SelectionSortMain.java

## sorting technique - insertion sort
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/InsertionSortMain.java

## sorting technique - bucket sort
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/BucketSortMain.java

## sorting technique - merge sort
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/MergeSortMain.java

## sorting technique - quick sort
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/QuickSortMain.java

## breath first search(bfs) using adjacency matrix
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/bfsbyadjmatrix.java

## breath first search(bfs) using linked list
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/bfsusinglinkedlist.java

## finding path from one node to another using bfs
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/pathfindingusingbfs.java

## depth first search(dfs) using iteration
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/dfsusingiteration.java

## depth first search(dfs) using recursion
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/dfsusingrecursion.java

## topological sort for graphs
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/TopologicalSortMain.java

## dijkstra algorithm
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/PathFindingByDijkstraMain.java

## bellman ford algorithm
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/PathFindingByBellmanFordMain.java

## floyd warshall algorithm
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/FloydWarshallMain.java

## least common ancestor in binary search tree for 2 nodes
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/binarytreelca.java

## distance between 2 nodes in BST
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/binarytreenodedist.java

## disjoint set
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/DisjointSetMain.java

## kruskal algorithm
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/KruskalMain.java

## prims
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/PrimsMain.java

# greedy algorithm

## activity selection method
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/ActivitySelectionMain.java

## coin change problem
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/CoinChangeProblemMain.java

## fractional knapsack
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/FractionalKnapsackMain.java

# Divide & conquer

## fibonacci
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/Fibonacci_DC.java

## factors of given no as sum of 1,3&4
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/Number_Factors_DC.java

## house thief problem
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/House_Thieft_DC.java

## convert one string to another
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/ConvertOneStringToAnother_DC.java

## 0/1 knapsack problem
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/ZeroOneKnapsack_DC.java

## Longest Common Subsequence
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/LongestCommonSubsequence_DC.java

## Longest Palindromic Subsequence
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/LongestPalindromicSubsequence_DC.java

## conversion of one string to another
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/ConvertOneStringToAnother_DC.java

## Longest Palindromic substring
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/LongestPalindromicSubstring_DC.java

## Min Cost To Reach Last Cell in 2DArray
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/MinCostToReachLastCellI_in2DArray_DC.java

## number of paths to reach last cell with given cost
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/blob/master/NumberOfPathsToReachLastCell_DC.java

# Dynamic Programming
list of problems and their solution in Dynamic programming
https://github.com/prakashjha18/Data-structures-and-Algorithm/tree/master/Dynamic%20Programming









